1) What is the CAP theorem? Differentiate between forward proxy and reverse proxy. 

Ans:    CAP theorem is also known as Brewer's theorem.
        CAP stands for 
            C: consistency
                Consistency means that all clients see the same data at the same time, no matter which node they connect to.

            A: Availability
                Availability means that that any client making a request for data gets a response, even if one or more nodes are down.

            P: partition tolerance
                A partition is a communications break within a distributed system—a lost or temporarily delayed connection between two nodes.

        A distributed system is a network that stores data on more than one node at the same time.

        Forward proxy is used by the client 
        Reverse proxy is used by the server


2) What is Caching and what are the different types of cache. What are the different ways to update cache?

Ans:    Caching is the process of storing data in a cache. A cache is a temporary storage area. It saves the logs each and everytime.

        Types of cache: 
            1. Web Caching 
            2. Data Cachin
            3. Application/Output Caching
            4. Distributed Caching

        
3) Differentiate between RPC and REST.

Ans:    RPC-based APIs are great for actions eg. commands. 
        REST-based APIs are great for modeling your domain eg. resources, 
        making CRUD (create, read, update, delete) available for all of your data.


4) Explain OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities.

Ans:    Injection        
        Broken authentication
        Sensitive data exposure
        XML external entities (XXE)
        Broken access control
        Security misconfigurations
        Cross-site scripting (XSS)
        Insecure deserialization
        Using components with known vulnerabilities
        Insufficient logging and monitoring

5) What is HTTP? Differentiate between HTTP and TCP. Differentiate between GET, POST, PUT and PATCH.

Ans:    HTTP is an abbreviation for ‘HyperText Transfer Protocol’. It is a networking protocol used for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia
        information systems. HTTP is the foundation of data communication for World Wide Web it means that it transfers the data on WWW.
        In other words, HTTP establishes communication between different systems to transfer the hypertext from client-end to the server-end.
        It basically allows the transmission of data from a web server to a web browser in order to display web pages to the users.
        HTTP is also known as ‘a stateless system' because each command is executed separately, without using the reference of the previous run command.

        HTTP is a Hypertext Transfer Protocol. HTTP is utilized to access websites
        TCP full form is Transmission Control Protocol.  while TCP is a session establishment protocol between client and server

        POST is always for creating a resource
        PUT is for checking if resource is exists then update , else create new resource.
        PATCH is always for update a resource.

6) Explain How DNS works.

Ans:    DNS stands for
            D: domain
            N: Name
            S: System

        It’s a system that lets you connect to websites by matching human-readable domain names (like wpbeginner.com) with the unique ID 
        of the server where a website is stored.

7) Explain CDN and HOW it works. Does it use some caching technique?

Ans:    CDN stands for 
        C: Content
        D: Delivery
        N: network

        A CDN allows for the quick transfer of assets needed for loading Internet content including HTML pages, javascript files, stylesheets, images, and videos.

        Caching is a technique to speed up data lookups (data reading). Instead of reading the data directly from it source, which could be a database or another
        remote system, the data is read directly from a cache on the computer that needs the data.

8) Differentiate between SQL and NO-SQL database?

Ans:    
        SQL
            SQL databases are relational
            SQL databases use structured query language
            SQL databases are table based

        NoSQL
            NoSQL are non-relational.  and have a predefined schema. 
            NoSQL databases have dynamic schemas for unstructured data.
            NoSQL databases are document, key-value, graph or wide-column stores

9) Explain Producer-Consumer problem.

Ans:    Producer-Consumer problem is also known as the bounded-buffer problem is a multi-process synchronizationproblem.
        The problem describes two processes, the producer and the consumer.

        Producer:
                    The producer's job is to generate a piece of data, put into the buffer and start again.

        Consumer:   
                    The consumer is consuming the data.

10) Differentiate between normalization and denormalization.

Ans:    Normalization is used to remove redundant data from the database and to store non-redundant and consistent data into it.
        Denormalization is used to combine multiple table data into one so that it can be queried quickly
        Denormalization does not maintain any data integrity.